Name: Glengyle
Region: Campbeltown (Dufftown)
Neighbours: Springbank, Glen Scotia
Founded / status: 2004 / active
Water source: Crosshill Loch
Stills: 1 Wash, 1 Spirit (second hand from Ben Wyvis) 
Capacity: 750,000 litres of pure alcohol per year 
Ownership: J. & A. Mitchell > Springbank Dist. (since 2004)
Address: 85 Longrow, Campbeltown, Argyll, PA28 6EX, Scotland
Visitor centre: No
Website: http://www.kilkerran.com/

Kilkerran is the name given to whisky distilled at Glengyle Distillery (2004) in Campbeltown. The distillery is the first new one to open in Scotland this millennium, and is the first new distillery in Cambeltown in more than 120 years. The distilleries origins go back much further than 2004, it was originally opened in 1872 by William Mitchell. At one time Cambeltown boasted more than 30 distilleries, and was the whisky capital of Scotland. However the whisky boom which spurred the growth of the Campbeltown whisky bubble eventually went bust and the distillery closed in 1925. In the years following the closure the buildings were used alternatively as a farmers’ cooperative and even as a shooting range. The buildings were acquired Hedley Wright, owner of the Springbank distillery and great great nephew of William Wright, in 2000.

The buildings at Glengyle were badly in need of repair, one of the buildings having served unofficially as a home to the towns pigeons for many years. The old equipment having long since been removed a new kit was in order to begin making whisky again. Stills were brought in from the closed Ben Wyvis distillery and reworked to suits the needs and specifications of Glengyle (the top and neck were reworked by Forsythes of Rothes). The malt mill is also gently used, formerly of Craigillachie distillery it was surplus to that distillery’s needs after its expansion. The mash tun and four wooden washbacks were all installed new.

Distillation at Springbank and Kilkerran was stopped during 2008 due to overproduction.  Distillation has restart at both now.

As there is a blended malt under the name Glengyle (owned by Loch Lomond distillery), the single malt from Glengyle distillery cannot therefore be referred to as Glengyle single malt. The distillery has decided to call the whisky Kilkerran, after the church of St. Kieran which can be seen through a window in a wall on the distillery grounds. This view is now the distillery’s logo, proudly displayed on each bottle. In 2007 a first limited release of Kilkerran 3 year old was launched. A more widely distributed Kilkerran “Work in Progress” was bottled in 2009. This is one of the two Kilkerran’s tasted below. Kensington Wine Market has bought the last 6 bottles of it in the province to display next to the new “Kilkerran Work in Progress” #2 also tasted below.

Bottlings
Kilkerran Work in Progress #1 (46%, OB, 5 year old, no cask listed, suspect ex-bourbon) - Nose: young and a bit spirity, lots of dusty oak and malt, freshly cut grapefruit, very grassy with soft sweet vanilla hanging on against the sour citrus notes; there are also hints of honey, new Christmas tree and something vaguely smoky; Palate: lots of vanilla, clean smoke and traces of salt; the palate is creamy and sweet with vanilla and heather honey, but there is also something more vegetal and brackish which adds depth; Finish: long and smooth with vanilla and salty smoke. - $69.99

Kilkerran Work in Progress #2 (46%, OB, 6 year old, 50% Fresh Bourbon, 25% Fresh Sherry and 25% Refill Bourbon) - Nose: creamy and buttery with floral tones, it too is dusty, but the vanilla is shoving the sour citrus notes of the 1st bottling to the side; it is less intense than the nose on the first bottling, but more balanced, opening more with time; Palate: it immediately feels thicker with more mouth-feel,  soft vanilla and white chocolate make their presence known first, the smoke is still present though it is soft and there is something green and vegetal; this is a maritime malt through and through with the Campbeltown sea salt adding balance to big toasted oak; Finish: long, drying and mouth-watering with more dusty malt. - $69.99

Kilkerran Work in Progress #3 (46%, OB, NA, no cask listed) - latest WIP bottling as of June 2011.  Better reviewed (by Loch Fyne retailers) than previous versions. - $51

Kilkerran Christmas 2008 (46%, OB, 4 year old, Port pipe) - Very exclusive bottling, 60 bottles worldwide available for around 500 GBP.  This is from the first casks that weren't intended to be released until 2014.