Springbank Distillery has three main products with varying expressions of each.  The three products, Longrow, Springbank, and Hazelburn differ somewhat by their content from a malting point of view, but also of interest is the approach to the /final/ spirit distillation for each product.

The initial distillation of the fermented wash of all of the products is identical.  This first fermentation produces the Low Wines and continues until the distillate reaches 1% by volumne (about 6 hours) and the remaining undistilled content in the still (the pot ale) are discharged from the still.  The Low Wines that are collected from this form the basis for the next distillations into the finished spirit.

The Longrow product starts with a heavily peated malt in the Islay style and is distilled twice.  After the initial creation of the Low Wines, this content as well as the Feints from previous spirit distillations are directly combined in the No 1 Low Wines still.  The first part of the distillation is returned directly to the receiver as it contains highly volatile components that are not desirable in the finished product.  This first run generally lasts 20-30 minutes and is referred to as the Foreshots.  
The main portion of the distillation occurs until the strength drops to 58% alcohol at 20ºC at which point the remainder is diverted to the combined receiver. The average strength of Longrow spirit collected in the intermediate spirit receiver (ISR) is 65 - 67% alcohol by volume (original distillate at this step can be as high as 70% alcohol.  Distillation continues until a reading of 1% alcohol remaining in the distillate is achieved at which point the steam is turned off and the remaining contents known as spent lees are discharged to drain. One distillation cycle takes around 10 hours.

The Springbank product uses a lightly peated malt (original to Campbeltown) and is referred to as 2.5 times distilled.  To achieve this moniker the "second" distllation contains a mixture of 90% Feints and 10% Low Wines and is distilled in the No 2 Low Wines Still.  As with the Longrow, only the middle cut of this distillation is collected as Spirit.  Strengths of this distillate range from 76% to 60% alcohol through the middle cut and the average of the spirit itself will be between 68-70% in the ISR.  One distillation cycle takes around 13 hours.

The Hazelburn product is in an unpeated Lowland style and uses a "triple" distillation.  The second disillation is a combination of the Low Wines and the Feints in the No 1 Low Wines still and the total of this distillation is collected as Feints.  From this point the No 2 Low Wines still is charged with only the Feints and the spirit is again produced from the middle cut of the distillation.  The strength during this run will drop from 80% to around 63% alcohol with the final product being between 70-72% in the ISR.  One distillation cycle takes around 13 hours.

In each case the new make spirit is reduced to around 63.5% alcohol by volume with the addition of water and then filled into the casks.